---
layout: post
title: About
cover: about_blank.png
categories: posts
permalink: about
tag: dre
year: 2022
---
# Physical Biology of the Cell - Dresden 2022

## About

It is a wonderful time to be thinking about the workings of the living world. Historic advances in molecular biology, structural biology and the use of biophysical techniques such as optical traps have provided an unprecedented window on the mechanics of the cell. The aim of this course is to study the cell and its components using whatever tools we need in order to make quantitative and predictive statements about cellular life. The main intellectual thread of the course will be the idea that the type of quantitative data which is becoming routine in biology calls for a corresponding quantitative modeling framework. The plan of this course is to elucidate general principles with exciting case studies.

## Where and When?

Each day, the course will roughly proceed as outlined below. On occasion, we may insert computation sessions during the daytime based on the flow of discussion throughout the course. 

<table>
<tr>
    <th style="width:130px"><b>Time</b></th>
    <th><b>Session</b></th>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>09h00 - 10h30</td>
    <td>Lecture from Rob</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>10h30 - 11h00</td>
    <td>Coffee Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>11h00 - 12h00</td>
    <td>Lecture from Rob</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>12h00 - 13h00</td>
    <td>Lunch Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>13h00 - 15h00</td>
    <td>Lecture from Rob</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>15h00 - 15h30</td>
    <td>Coffee Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>15h30 - 18h00</td>
    <td>Lecture from Rob</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>18h00 - 19h00</td>
    <td>Dinner Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>19h00 - 21h00</td>
    <td>Computational Session with Tom</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Course Syllabus

Below is a tentative outline of the topics covered each day. However, some material may be taught earlier or later in the schedule if the conversation helps steer teaching in a particular direction.

<table>
<tr>
    <th style="width:150px"><b>Day</b></th>
    <th><b>Topic</b></th>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Monday, Oct. 3rd</td>
    <td>What sets the Scale of X?</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Tuesday, Oct. 4th</td>
    <td>Null Hypothesis of the Living</td>
</tr>

<tr>
    <td>Wednesday, Oct. 5th</td>
    <td>Dissecting a Frank Jülicher Talk</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Thursday, Oct. 6th</td>
    <td>The Secret of Life</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Friday, Oct. 7th</td>
    <td>The Dreamer's Toolkit</td>
</tr>
</table>